Chapter 3: Research

Dr. Liu paces the lab, frustrated.

"Let me get this straight" he finally interrupts the tense silence "It's 1942,
there's a war on, one of the greatest mathematical minds of the century was
RIGHT HERE, in THIS VERY LAB, and we lost him."

"well, yeah" a dishevilled, unshaven grad student confirms, double-checking
the sheaf of dog-eared papers on the clipboard that he brandishes like a
shield to somehow deflect the wrath of his mad scientist advisor, "Smith kind
of decided that the only thing that would end the war was a secret hidden in a
storybook that he'd had as a kid, and went looking for it. They thought he'd
gone crazy, but his shrink assured them that his motivations were totally
patriotic, so they just made sure he couldn't leave the country of talk to any
spies and then got back to their massive piles of work to do... " The student
glance shiftily at the door, comparing the unfinished dissertation currently
piled on his desk against the imagined task of breaking Communist ciphers, and
finding it the more daunting of the two.

"a STORYBOOK?" Liu's wrath peaked, and he appeared to realize the absurdity of
the situation only as he heard his own bellow. He calmed down then began to
scribble on the nearest chalkboard with the implement that he'd previously
been using to stab at the thin air occupied by imaginary incompetent
government agents of decades past. 

"So. *we* find, from the files *they* appear to have left" Liu continued,
drawing each noun as a box and each transfer of information as a question mark
over an arrow, "that *smith* had a *shrink* who said he went crazy and so the
*agents* let him off the hook to go wander off to *who knows where* and look
for a *storybook*." 

"You took my freshman lecture" the professor singles out a short haired lady
who was lounging quietly in the corner, splitting her attention between the
argument and a new tablet but looking amused by the exchange that she
observed. Gesturing at the board, he asks her "In this system, what went
wrong?"

"Okay, 'doctor'" she gently mocks him, then quickly and confidently crosses
the room to the chalkboard. 

"Starting the furthest from us, where the information has had the most
transfers over which it could decay." she began, "We hear that there was a
storybook. The book could be a codename for a person or item. We hear that
it's unkonwn where he went. The location could have been concealed if he was
on a sufficiently classified mission. We hear that the agents let him off the
hook, as you put it, but this or the entire system so far could be a cover for
his transfer to another mission or for his death."

"The shrink could be another part of the cover, or he could genuinely have
lost his faculties." she went on. "We hear that this whole story applies to
Smith, but it could potentially have been attributed to the wrong individual.
We hear that they inadvertently left the files, but the files could have been
intentionally planted to cover up any of a number of legal violations on the
part of the government. And finally, the fact that we believe we found this
information could mean that we misinterpereted any of a number of hints or
cues which a person of the time would have immediately noticed."

"Well done" Liu is only half-joking, clearly proud of his pupil's ability to
rigorously apply the analytical techniques which he himself had quantified. 

Andy interrupted him, her voice suddenly serious . "But I double-checked
Mack's work on the files, analyzed the initial failure points... and
ridiculous as it sounds, with the way things are currently set up I think
there actually was a story book. A variety of cues in the documents, including
the journals which we recovered and dated to before the bomb, would lead
anyone capable of wielding Occam's Razor to conclude that the agents in the
fourties were just as confused by Smith's break with their shared reality as
we are today. Smith was convinced there was a book, his shrink believed that
he was convinced (and it was only Maslow, after all), and the agents thought
so too. So whatever he was after, it's been aliased all along as a book as we
know from the radiological analysis of the journals, and finding the thing
took over his life. I say we find the book, and at least we'll know what was
memorable enough to be worth attribution of snapping over."

Mack nodded in agreement. 

"All right", conceded Liu, "I'll get back to the other team; they need
babysitting and I'm sure you guys can figure this out on your own." Almost to
the door, he spun back to retrieve his briefcase from the desk by the chalk
board, looking lost, overworked, and haggard without the illlusory stature
imbued on him by his previous state of rage. 
