Chapter 5: Case Mod's Great Blog

omg so the funniest thing happened today, it was pretty much the greatest
thing ever. my latest care package from kirah had finally showed up (xoxoxo
hugs and kisses sweetheart, you're the greatest, you're like my favorite lady
~~eVeR~~) and it had so many great things -- I have gagues the next side up
with the CUTEST sugar skulls embedded in the clear epoxy, and the new comic
book, and this totally hawt tank top with a printout of real EEG readings on
it! i saw it online and just HAD to have it except they can't ship to here so
kirah was an absolute darling and got it shipped to her house instead and then
sent it with the courier. 

so the super funny thing is that i just had to put that top on right away
'cause i'm getting siiiiiick of wearing the same old stuff over and over and
over even when i cut up and hack on my old tops and i made a skirt out of one
of my ex's plaid shirts the other week and stuff, but clothes i make myself
there are some things i just can't do the way you can with a real sewing
machine and screen printing facilities and stuff, so anyways i put the tank
with the eeg readouts on... have i told you how much i looooove creepy nerdy
gear? not fake-nerdy, like those horrible hoodies with the skeletons printed
on that end up hanging so the joints are COMPLETELY out of alignment and they
even have the wrong number of ribs, or the stupid heartbeat prints that don't
even have the scale in the background and are proportioned totally wrong
unless you're, like, a hamster, but actual real science and informtion... i
just think it's so cool! 

so anyways i'm wearing this shirt and i go into the dc to check on drip and
make sure he remembered to eat today 'cause sometimes he forgets and when he
forgets he gets super psycho... and there he is with some hot pocket wrappers
so i knwo he got his care package from home too and even ate food but then he
turns around and sees my totally hot new shirt and he's like "another one?!"
and turns TOTALLY WHITE and looks like he's practically about to be sick and
runs out of the room without even locking his screen or anything! I mean sure
I totally took a look but it was just some stupid diary thing, nothing hot or
juicy like irc logs if he was cybering with his lady or something. Does his
lady cyber? i do'nt really know -- i mean, last i knew he was kinda not really
but totally dating this adorable pagan librarian chick, who i would so steal
from him (jk jk jk, kirah darling), but i don't really knwo how that turned
out. 

anyways i hear an alarm, i think the kitchen's beeping at me for the changes i
made to the oven's air circ system, so i'd better go sort those silly things
out and tell it everything will be okay and then turn in for the night (ha ha
i just typed into, like POOF i am the night (actually a bat with a toothbrush,
brushie brushie and don't forget to floss!)) so ta ta for now and sweet
dreams, my lovelies, and kirah i'll dream of you as always <3
