hapter 6:  Translated from the diary of Erasmus Fust, the Printer's son

Oh, would that Father could have allowed me to study under the great Inventor!
All thesse efforts to which I've been put in tracking down the origins of that
great teacher's noble insights could have been skipped, and their work applied
instead to furthering a caust unto untrodden ground. But as it is, I must
perservere in catching up to his knowledge, and those few words he slipped me
have been of most unfathomable help. 

I was so fortunate that Father allowed me to travel into the city to visit the
great Library, under the guise of studying the most cunning methods with which
the older tomes were bound. I accomplished that -- I love the old books, the
careful work, so different from those hasty and slipshod pieces which the lust
for money forces us to turn out in droves today, and marveling at their
construction was like conversing with the scribes of yore. 

More intriguing than those silent, one sided conversations with the ancient
scribes, perhaps, was a quiet but decicdedly shared discussion with the
elderly librarian who kept them. He went to great pains to be sure I'd heard
all about his youth in a monestary, repeating three or so tales of that life
until I could tell them back to you verbatim. So since thou spendest thy time
locked up in such a small well hidden box, my diary, perhaps I shall let your
imagine out into the crisp chill air of a lifetime ago by sharing those tales
-- and testing that I've committed them to memory so well as I might claim!

He was first consigned there as a young child, after his parents' death in a
tragic fire. He still remembers the lullabye his mother used to sing him,
though he can't recall her face. The song's words (I can recall the story,
though not the tune -- 'tis fortunate indeed that I've never felt any
aspiration to the calling of the minstrel, for a most poor one i should be)
told the tale of a merchant who came to market each year selling blades of
twice the quality of the year before, and charged but a single gold piece more
each year, till his fame spread far and wide throughout the land and even
attracted the attention of the King. The king sent for a blade from the
merchant and recieved one of the latest make, of which 400 had already been
sold. Finding the blade to be of higher quality than any in his personal
collection, the king was angered, and sent his inquisitors to investigate how
the merchant had come to possess such a number of such impossibly beautiful
things. No matter that he was pressed for information, the merchant refused to
tell, and when he was followed constantly for the whole next year he simply
failed to appear at the market, for he had not gotten any new blades.
Eventually the king lost his temper and had the merchant beheaded, for he had
surmised that only witchcraft could have produced such works, and for many a
year afterwards whenever a blade so good was found it was immediately
destroyed lest suspicion be brought upon its owner as well. 

The second of the hoary library keeper's stories was of another young convert,
a serving-boy at the monastaery. There was a single kife in the kitchen which
only the master chef was permitted to touch, for legend had it that it was so
sharp and held its own edge so well that if it was dropped it could cut
straight through the butcher's block and through the floor and into the
building's stone foundation, where it would stick like Excalibur until a
knight with the strength and fortitude and purity of heart of Arthurian legend
came along to remove it. The chef always joked about how inconvenient it would
be to be constantly stepping past a stuck knife in the floor and how fond he
was of that particular chopping block, and kept the blade well of reach,
balanced with its weight resting on the back of the blade in an angled slot in
the highest knife block, with only its handle sticking out. The blade was safe
and the chef was happy until one day, some impudent kitchen boys were playing
chase in the rafters of the kitchen which adjoined the great hall, and the
librarian's friend the serving-boy slipped and fell. In a reflexive gesture he
tried to reach out and grab any handhold to stop himself, but his arm crossed
the handle of the Chef's Knife and nudged it loose, pulling it halfway from
its resting place in the block and drawing the middle of his forearm
perpendicular to its edge. Now any odinary knife would have stuck into the
bone, as a butcher can tell you who's ever hit with too much force at the
wrong point on the hock of a ham, but in the story that knife slipped straight
through bone muscle gristle and all, taking off half the boy's arm so cleanly
that not a drop of blood was left  on the blade, then it fell back into its
slot rather than clattering to the floor. The librarian repeated the boy's
relief, over and over, that perhaps he'd lost his hand but at least he had not
knocked the knife down, so greatly did he fear the old Chef's anger if he had
done so.

The third story was of the a time when he had, as punishment for some slight
slip or misdeed, been consigned to work in the monestary's garden. It was a
marvelous array of foliage preserved lush and lively from many distant lands,
with brooks for the swamp plants and tiny false mountains for the rocky ones,
with bell jars and glass houses for the plants from the warmest climes and
most cunning contraptions of nearby water and mirrors and shaded alcoves for
those which could only florish in ground bright and dry and cold. The monk who
coordinated the whole of the gardening sent him out to fetch a medicinal herb
known to alleviate arthritis and instructed him to crush its leaves in a
mortar and pestle immediately, sending him out with the tools and a grumpily
snapped description of the plant at hand. The young librarian found a plant
which he thought matched the description, plucked some leaves, and tried to
crush it in the mortar and pestle but at the touch of the plant's juices the
stone became so soft that it melted into a putty under his hands! His only
recourse was to form the bowl and macerator back into what he believed to be
their proper shapes with his hands, then rinsed the plant's leaves and juices
off in a nearby stream. The old man insisted that due to the haste with which
he'd completed such work, the monestary still owned a bowl with childish
thumbprints embedded in it, which he had returned to his supervisor along with
claims of failure to find the desired medicinal once it was returned to more
or less its proper form.

