Chapter 11: Fishbike to Bikefish, email

Bike, 

Thanks for the box -- that lock looks like a real doozie. I should be able to
get it apart and imprint a new key from it without too much trouble, though
it'll take awhile. The springs in old ones like this tend to rust out pretty
badly. I'll get you the dimensions if  it turns out to need replacements. 

Funny thing, what you said about Drip only lasting 18 months -- practically
right on schdeule, I think he's starting to crack. At least I saw him outside
the data center yesterday evening, which is fucked up all on its own, but he
was alternately pacing back and forth and huddling in a corner hugging his
knees just kidna rocking back and forth like practically in a fetal position.
Sometimes scribbling a bit in some notebook, which when he set it down had
fucking ponies on the front! Like, that kids' show that all the neckbeards are
famous for getting into obsessively. I don't know where he would have even
gotten it; he bunks in the noc and we're walking through there all the time so
i'm p sure he must have had it stashed under his mattress or somethin. hey i
guess whatever it takes, to each his own and all that, but yeah. At least the
uptime graphs are looking good; that's the bit i need. I left the poor guy
alone; he gets so tetchy about it when he finds out somebody overheard or
accidentally saw anything that he'd rather be keeping private. 

how're things with your latest boy toy? what's he called, doctor jekyll or
something? My bet is 3 more weeks before you find him annoying and get bored
:P I really need to get out on some town or other, even that little sheep
village down the hill -- I've been cooped up in here so long that even Casemod
is starting to look like a delicious morsel of ladyhood. I mean, she'd be
delicious enough if she could grow up and learn to take herself seriously and
dress like an adult, and I do like them intelligent... but it's infuriating
how one of the best mechanical minds in the Valley and New York combined has
to come in such an insolent, gleefully illiterate, scantily clad little
package... Well, infuriating in the way that'd be hot to watch torrented, but
drives me up the wall to be shut in with in a converted old factory in
practically Russia. Anyways, see how badly I need this crap to be over and
odne so I can get out?

-Fish

P.S. If you happen to find any old tattoo flash in the drawers o' crap you
have to dig through, and it has peacocks or pinup girls, could you pass a
piece or two along? Case admitted the other day that she's secretly really
into that old stuff, and i figure as a backup plan I might as well get onto
her good side...

