Chapter 12: Bikefish to Fishbike

Fish, 

My goodness, dear brother, you do need to get out and get laid. There'll be
some flash in your next box... vids of hot and eligible chicks flashing the
camera, that is. And if there's a little silicone friend to help you out,
well, you're asking for it by showing the desparation of thinking like that
about a coworker of all things. Remember our rules? 

I had a rather entertaining encounter the other day, fallout from the
previously ignoble proprietors of our now hopefully a bit more noble business,
about whom I have no doubt told you at length already. As you've mocked me for
so often already, the previous owners of this lovely establishment are rather
famed throughout the city for their questionable business practices through
history. Well, today a gentleman came in who must have been a right
doppleganger of that crazy researcher Dr. Lou that you told me about, silly
mustache, grubby lab coat, and all! He demanded that I rifle through all of
our records for any hint as to the whereabouts  of a particular children's
book which allegedly came through either our shop or some other shop in the
state or some shop on the East Coast sometime between the 1920's and the '50s.
Thanks to your work on the OCR for inventory, there might have been a chance,
but he didn't even know its title or subject matter! I endeavored to placate
him with our lovely shelf of childrens' books out front, hoping that perhaps
the gratuitously racist and otherwise comically outmoded might sate his
curiosity, but to no avail. He was certain -- the only thing about which he
was certain -- was that the book he sought had left the country over half a
century ago. Customer service, eh? Be glad you're out there with only the
servers and the script kiddies to hassle you.

My gentleman lover Jacobi is most well, thank you for asking. He's only got a
few more weeks to go in rehab -- I'm so proud of the progress he's been
making! Our rather personal visitation time has been spectacular -- as he puts
it, sobriety is a hell of a drug. Perhaps you and I should try it some time...
but alas.

Thank you for your work on that lock -- the mechanical eludes me nigh as
effectively as proper grammar flees from you.

-Bike
