Chapter 13: Case Mod's Great Blog

Ladies and gentlemen and those who aren't sure, fasten your seatbelts and hold
on tight because I am going to ROCK YOU! I had the absolute best idea EVER
today, while I was crawling around inside the poor cluster hooking back some
tubes that fell out when clumsy ole Drippy Drippy Drip was freaking out or
fucking around or fucking the thing or whatever it is that he does in there. I
wouldn't know; all I do is keep the good things going in and the bad things
going out so that the magic keeps happening inside those big shiney circuit
boards... 

I realized, I get to have the BEST JOB TITLE ~*.*EVAR*.*~... I work on air
conditioning, in a data center, so I AM AN AC/DC! I blasted highway to hell
super loud on the PA system to celebrate and I don't think Drips was very
happy about it, because he was being all shy and didn't come ask why I was so
awesome, but Fishbike kinda danced around and pretended to be all fancy like
he does. It reminded me of how lucky I am to have a great wonderful gorgeous
sumptuous delicious delightful lady like Kirah in my life, 'cause guys are
such derps even when they seem like they're doing everything right. And Kirah
doesn't even have to try <3~

Kirah sweetheart darling love of my life or at the very least of my body, I'm
making you a surprise! I know I'm terribly bad (terribad? terrier bad? cute
pictures in my head of fuzzy little doggies misbehaving <3) at keeping
secretes to i won't tell you that it's going to be shiney and i won't tell you
that it'll have gold on it and i reeeeally won't tell you how i'm making it
all by myself out of things that were left over from the computers so you'll
be shiningly stunningly beautiful and get to feel like you're part of the borg
like we talk about when we're playing all secretly together ;)

I hope that you're taking very good care of yourself and i miss you terribly
and especially your delicious wonderful amazing home cooking -- I've been
trying out your recipes but I just can't do them as well as you. I miss you
and I want you and I need you in my life, my dear, so you be a good girl ^_^
~/~/~@ (and don't cut yourself on the spiny roses' thorns; i'll wrap them all
up in a purple ribbon like your very favorite, my dear)

