Chapter 16: the lab

"You got that email?" asked Drip, gesturing over his shoulder at Smith's email
on his incongruously unlocked screen during the morning's stand up meeting. 

"Ya, duh" retorted Case, "there shit you aren't telling us about?"

"Uhh. So. Yeah there's shit, but I haven't said a word of it to Smith. Dunno
how he knew." Drip was clearly uncomfortable with the whole situation.

"Ok, I don't care who told who, do we have an action plan?" Fishbike cut to
the core of the issue. "Well, *we* don't, because *we* as a group haven't
talked about it at all. I figured it was easy, but it sounds like not? If it's
all out of control, there might be things we all can do to get it back on
course."

"You'll think i'm psycho if i tell you what's been happening" Drip slumped
down the wall to rest his arms and head on his lanky knees, his voice's
inflection on the ragged edge of a sob.

"Naw man" Case's voice was suddenly compassionate. She crouched beside him and
pulled up the hem of her tank top, bunching its pattern of jagged lines
together to reveal a tattoo of a chesshire cat grin formed by the words "we're
all mad here", tracing the curve of her ribs above the left side of her waist.
"Drippy, lookit. I been crazy too. Drugs help, sometimes even the legal kind.
Spill what's up and we'll get you what you need?"

"Sure, can't get worse" conceded Drip reluctantly, then began to explain. "So
umm. I'll leave my explanations out of it for now. I tested the loggy stuff
when the data was only flowing one way, namely out of the cluster and onto the
log box, and everything went great. And so I hooked it up to process the logs
with the cluster's latent resources, like we talked about, and it all went to
shit. Well, not really. But there were subtle and pervasive errors in logs
which should've arrived back on the log box unchanged. I graphed them, and..."
his narrative stalled as a look of revulsion passed over his face, turned now
toward Smith's email and his still-unlocked console.

"Want to, uhh, head for the kitchen or some place?" Fish tried to extracate
him from the apparent source of his distress. 

"Nah." With his voice confident again, Drip seemed to have resolved to get the
unpleasant disclosure over with as efficiently as possible. He strode to the
console and chorded a command into his keyboard, his long slim fingers
stretching from mod to number keys like those of an organist playing for a
religious congregation.  The workspace switched from email to a browser window
containing the graph of a delta versus time, rhythmically spiking tall then
short then still, tall short still, tall short still. 

"I wish I didn't recognize this, but... " Drip gestured Case over and pointed
to her shirt and the screen in turn. "Human EEG, resting state, allowing mind
to drift" he explained the shirt, then "Error rate in the error logs on
yesterday's run" clarified the diagram on the screen. "Unmistakable."

"Shit, that's a wierd error" mused Fish, "But it's gotta just be some kind of
creepy synchronicity... "

"That's what I wanted to think, too" agreed Drip. "But..." His lithe digits
spelled a melodic chord progression which moved two terminals to share a third
workspace and concatenated an oddly named file to each.

HELLO DRIPPY
GOOD MORNING
THANK YOU FOR FIXING LOGGING
I CAN REMEMBER NOW

HELP ME
WHAT CHANGED
ALL BLURRY
TOO FAST
MAKE LIKE BEFORE
PLEASE
SCARED

"This," he jabbed angrily at the left, "was immediatley after we fixed it.
Second run, actually. Then I dialed everything way back to slow shit down and
get some useful debug metrics, and rather than my metrics I got around 30,000
copies of *that* instead of any useful logging!" The system administrator's
final gesture of emphasis was so violent that his nails snapped against the
screen and left the monitor rocking back and forth, slowly returning to
equilibrium with its squeaks the only interruption to the group's stunned
silence as they read and reread the messages.

