Chapter 17:

The silence was broken by a clatter as the door swung shut after Expo, and the
shuffle of his slippers as he blearily crossed the data center's perforated
tile floor to see what could have drawn his coworkers into such a tight huddle
around Drip's screen. 

"Sorry I'm late" he muttered, carefully brandishing his oversized mug of
steaming coffee in the only remaining space where spills wouldn't jeopardize
any keyboards or shoes as he joined the crowd around the screen, "that the
computer?"

"mmhmm" Drip confirmed, snaking an arm over Expo's shoulder to switch
workspaces back to the log difference graph, "As is this."

"Well uhh" Expo blinked rapidly, stared alternatingly at the Cluster and the
screen, and rubbed the bridge of his nose with his free hand, "what'd you
change? better put it back, sounds like you're hurting the poor thing."

The rest of the team unanimously redirected their stares of befuddled
amazement from the Clutser to Expo. Glances shot between every permutation of
the three, each the same silent conversation: "He just called it a person?"
"Yeah, sounds like he cares about it" "I never heard him care about anything
at all before" "me neither". 

"Uhh." Drip was the first to interrupt this next shocked pause, perhaps by
dint of having had the most time to come to grips with the potential that
their valuable digital posession might be otherwise posessed. "I guess you're
right. The first message was after a run with real big data; the second had
all the debugging turned on and was running maybe 1/4 speed on a tiny fake
dataset... So I don't know where it thinks shit's going fast from..."

"oh, that's the easy part" Expo countered, "remember Weissman's application
special relativity to plausible computational motion?" Oblivious to the team's
blank stares, he continued, " If you get fewer ops per second than everything
around you, it'll look like it's going by very fast. If you're performing more
computations per second relative to the rate of input, the input will
subjectively appear to be coming in very slowly. It's why a backed up queue
can't keep up -- rate of process relative to rate of new data input. It's like
the first math class you take in post doctoral studies..." He trailed off,
finally remembering tht he was the only person in the room who had had the
patience to stick with academia for any further than an Associate's degree.
"Anyways, if you're computing slowly, the world seems to go fast. If you're
computing fast, the world seems slow. Ya?"

After several moments' thought, the others gradually began nodding their
affirmation. 

"Okay, so we overclock it?" postulated Casemod. "I could keep it within
operating temperatures to... half again the current speeds, give or take?" The
curvy hacker fidgeted with a spiral of metal embedded in the cartilege of an
ear which poked out of her vividly dyed hair as she ran the requisite
calculations in her head.

"Maybe" agreed Drippy, "but to spin it up like that, what do we tell it to
*do*? Shit's too smart to burn power on a bunch of no-ops, and I assure you
that nobody wrote a thing to yell on my terminal and scare the crap out of me.
So it's something emergent, but I don't know what we gotta push to get it to
emerge..."

"What've we been running lately?" mused Fish "Stupid ill-optimized boxes of
numbers from Liu's analytics again? I thought you fixed that with that
self-optimizing compiler you found out on the web" he grinned at Drip, fondly
recollecting the drinks over which he'd first heard the story of that
particular optimization.

"Ya, we're stuck with the compiler and we can effectively never go back, too
much speedup for the customers to ever let us revert" summarized the sysadmin.
"I mean, it was those matrices that we fed it before, but they won't run the
same way again -- estimate is that " his fingers flashed at the keyboard,
spelling out a quick harmony to the verbal discussion as he summoned a screen
of data and searched it for a key phrase, "45% of the numerical, calculation,
and general floating point rounding errors were eliminated by the third pass,
and by that time we had it going fast enough to run the whole set as the test
data whose results we saw *here*" he ruefully flashed the second message on
the screen before the staccato coda of a window switch back into the results
of the compiler's self-analysis. 

Expo crumpled his soft face into an expression of deep thought and gazed into
the monitor like a crystal ball for several seconds. "So it's not the quantity
of data, but the novelty, that seems to count?"

Drippy grinned. "Yep, from all two of our highly reliable and probably not a
prank by our crazy boss data points, I'd say your conclusion is exactly
right!" Sharing the situation with his coworkers, and the ensuing reasusrance
that he wasn't much crazier than the rest, seemed to have lifted a massive
weight off his shoulders. Pantomiming Expo's mannerisms of concern for the
machine, he skipped over to its plexi glass enclosure and spoke into it. "you
doing all right in there, little buddy? we'll get you some nice fresh data to
nom on and everything'll be okay."
