Chapter 18: 

The past fortnight has been right eventful indeed, I dare say. I returned to
the city under the pretense of mongering a bargain between Father and a
viscount there, a most vain and pompous main who had decreed that his memoirs
ought be committed to print a thousandfold and strewn through book collections
throughout the land. I took with me my childhood friend Cuthbert, the barber's
son, for I had told him in jest over a flagon of ale the few stories which the
librarian had regailed me over and over on my previous journey. 

We hired lodings in the city's smaller inn, for Father has been prosperous of
late and said it should not do to have a member of his family found sleeping
in a barn again as I had done upon my previous trip. As we had gotten in quite
late, we fell almost immediately to sleep upon arriving. After breaking our
fast upon a delicious meal of fresh bread and the city's famous wursts, we
proceeded post haste to the lodgings of the librarian who had since my last
visit so consumed my curiosity and concerns. 

Imagine my shock, my astonishment, my surprise when our rap at the door,
patterned in a rhthm which the old man had insisted upon drilling into my mind
before I left to return home after my previous trip and which had formed the
cadence of my step for my whole walk back to Father's workshop, was greeted
not by the shuffling, decrepit old librarian but by a young lady, a nymph
describable only by the ancients' fabled songs, a true vision of loveliness.
Her wavy hair, the rich and luxuriant brown of a fattened rabbit in the fall,
drifted about her picturesque face in a halo, shiningly illuminated by the
sunbeams just beginning to peek through the window at the other end of the
entry hall, with some urgency as though they were eager to see the mirage of
perfection in front of me as well. This illusion of an angel visiting Earth by
instruction of our Lord's incalculable grace and wisdom was completed by her
raiment, a pure and simple snow-white gown, unembellished perhaps in the
recognition that any further adornment could not compete with her perfectly
flawless skin and would be wasted in marring the backdrop of her perfect
silhouette. 

The miracle on the other side of the door step pulled a faded blue robe over
her nightgown and brushed at her hair awkwardly, stammering an apology for her
dishabille which at least filled the awkward silence as I endeavoured to
recollect my once-respectable skill at marshalling sounds into words and words
into sentences. A lance of those devious, furtive sun beams, earlier unnoticed
in my distraction by my newfound muse, snuck through the hall window and made
a noble try at gouging out my left eyeball, which forced me to throw up a hand
in self-defense. The gesture reminded me of my manners, and the two good ideas
struck me at once to transform my motion into both a bow and a salute. This
led me to stumble, but catching myself on the doorstep, I threw forth a stream
of words apologizing for the intrusion and explaining that my sole goal had
been to visit my acquaintance the Librarian, in the hopes that the memory of
my eloquent explanation might overpowre that of my clumsily attempted
reverance faux pas.

