Chapter 20: The 1920's

"Ulee", the old man called across the garden, "Come back now and I'll read you
a story before dinnertime". 

"But Grampa..." The 4-year-old took a last look at his construction, a pile of
twigs and bark that he described as "a big fort to keep out the injuns" when
his grandmother asked him about it on her slow, tottering walk around the
cabin's grounds that morning. The child's obedience won out, and he was
already trotting along the gravel path between the vegetable beds as his
great-grandfather called a further enticement: "I found another old-old book". 

The little boy's pace sped up with his excitement at that tantallizing piece
of information, and he tripped on the raised edge of a garden bed, sending
himself sprawling face-first only to catch himself with a collision between
his soft palms and the unforgiving rock pieces paving the path. Only a stone
on the path beneath him would have seen his face crumple with pain in
preparation to mark his reaction to this surprise with a childish wail, for by
the time he stood up and soberly dusted himself off, he had already regained
his composure. 

"Thank you for stories, grampa" he greeted his ancestor upon reaching the
porch, "but I'd best have Mama tie these up to keep from spoiling the book".
His great grandfather took the boy's tiny hands in his large and wizened ones
and turned them over, examining the drips of blood oozing from their scrapes.
"You're a brave little man indeed, Ulysses Zachary Smith. I'm proud of you."

The child skipped into the house, spirits lightened by his ancestor's
compliment, and returned a few minutes later with the lacerated palms bound
lovingly by his grandmother in clean strips of a worn out napkin from the bag
of rags kept in the pantry for just such occasions.

"Excuse me, may I have a story now, Grampa?" the small, respectful voice woke
the old man from a pleasant slumber into which he had drifted while his
descendent was indoors. 

"Indeed, young lad!" The old man seemed rejuvenated by the child's very
proximity to him. "This particular book is one that I think you haven't seen
before. I just today found it in a very old trunk in the attic" He produced a
large, thin book, its heavy vellum pages bound between leather-covered plates
of ancient wood. On the cover was embossed the silhouette of a craftsman at
his workbench,  the diagram flanked above and below by blackletter text so
ornate that the child, competent though he already was at following the
adventures of Dick and Jane in the work books that his elder sister sometimes
brought home to study from school, could not even tell what language it was
written in. 

"What book is it, grandpa?" The boy inquired excitedly, "Does this story book
have a book story like the book you read me about the trains?"

"That it does, dear boy" the great grandfather seemed pleased at the quick wit
being shown by his young relative. "A long, long time ago, long before your
mother or even her Mama was born, I traveled all around in a place called
Europe, way over on the other side of the globe. " He opened the book, drawing
his eyes in from the thousand yards he'd been staring back into a different
place and time. 

"There was a big building that had burned down, and part of my job was to help
the families who used to live there look through what was left and find the
things that they needed to keep. We worked for days on it, and at the end, we
had given the families who escaped their things back, and we had left over a
stack of things that didn't seem to belong to anybody there at all. One lady
said that this book used to belong to the little old man who lived next door
to her, and she remembered him reading it to his grandchildren when they came
to visit. She told me to take it back to America with me and read it to my own
grandchildren when I grew old..."

"How did she know you were an American, Grampa?" the child innocently filled
the silence. 

The old man sighed, knowing that there were some things of which he should
leave the youngster innocent for they would settle onto his shoulders as he
grew up and learned more of the ways of the world. Instead of answering, he
pointed to the elaboartely ornamented wall of impenetrable blackletter text on
the first page of the open book which he still held in his lap. 

"Es war einmal", he read, "That means Once Upon a Time." The child sat
quietly, entranced by the old book and the old man, as his forefather slowly
translated.

"There lived a blacksmith, whose name was Smith for that is what he was. He
was a most queer smith indeed, for he was the son of a wealthy man and yet had
chosen the more meager profession, for he spoke of its honesty. The smith had
apprenticed at first under a watchmaker, and only later learned the forging of
metal into larger parts and knives..."

"Dinner!" the story was interrupted by a sweet alto voice which pierced the
gathering dusk. 

"Best do as your Mama says, little one" the great grandfather shooed his great
grandson along the porch toward the cabin's door, "I'll be along, but I go
slower on these old bones."

He sat silently for a moment, reliving the sounds and smells of the corpses
and charred posessions that he and his squad had hauled out of a bombed-out
tenement so many years ago, before shutting his mind and the book with a snap
whose echo returned from the other side of the little mountain valley after a
respectful pause.

