Chapter 21: England, 2 years ago

""FUCK YOU!" Mandy ended the argument by slamming the front door of the flat
so hard that the crystal adorned windchimes in the kitchen window tittered in
protest. A few furious strides down the front path forced her to stop,
retuning to the house to quickly grab a pair of boots from the entryway which
she seehingly pulled on over her already rain-drenched socks. Rather than
admitting her mistake by slamming the door a second time she left the door of
the flat wide open, muttering epithets of hope that its remaining occupant
would perish miserably of a terrible illness communicated by the cold air
which her gesture was allowing inside. 

She stomped along the path and arbitrarily turned right on the sidewalk,
pacing in a preoccupied manner along a route that would take her through the
center of the small, sleepy town. A small sleepy town for a small sleepy
career devoid of all interest or adventure, a bland unpalatable sickeningly
self contented place mirroring the boredom and apathy of being trapped in her
simple uninteresting unhurtful relationship with that stupid American. She'd
thought he was interesting, she'd thought he was glamorous, she'd thought that
because he used to work in a mental hospital and play guitar in a band that he
would have fascinating stories and be crazy in the exciting way and write
songs for her and make her different, make her special, make her the kind of
important person that everybody else told stories about. But no, all he wanted
to do was be sane and boring and -- that word with which she cursed the herds
of person like sheep and sheep like people eaqually in their backwater
farmer's town -- NORMAL. He wouldn't even objectify or mock or marginalize or
persecute her, and everybody knows that having a good villain in one's life
was almost better than being swept off your feet by the perfect Prince
Charming of a hero. Lends to audience interest, and all that, but did *she*
get to be interesting? No, of course not, despite her best efforts, despite
inscribing all the right combinations of her runes and incanting custom
designed spells that she'd commissioned for that exact purpose, she never got
a chance or a break.

The miserable, indecisive drizzly fog finally made up its mind that the cold
and damp felt better out of the clouds than in, and began to sheet down more
heavily, soaking through her decorative jacket and thin, uncomfortable dress.
Her firey consternation was quenched by this inopportune reminder of reality,
and fizzled out in a cloud of self pitying steam.  Everything was cold and wet
and gray and pathetic and miserable, and showed no signs of any improvement in
the foreseeable future. She stopped and just stood for an interminably dreary
minute, torn between the discomfort of continuing and the indignity of
returning to the flat and her now apparently ex boyfriend's inevitable
consideration and apology. 

"Are you all right, child?" a quavering voice called from the darkness across
the street. The voice's owner seemed to suddenly realize that she was
invisible to Mandy, and flicked on a warm incandescent bulb. Its candleish
light spilled out from the plate glass window and open door to reveal that
Mandy's rage had run out of (or more accurately, gone up in) steam across the
street from the cozy, comfortable town's little book and antique store, run by
little old Constance Spebbington, who'd been a bent and graying epitome of
grandmotherly hospitality since before anyone else in the town could remember.
"Come indoors, you'll catch your death of cold out there, dear girl."

Carefully omitting any thoughts of how she'd been making similar wishes toward
her on again off again partner mere minutes earlier, for fear that the old
crone might be able to read minds, Mandy hid her annoyance at being recued
with a facade of polite appreciation. 
