Chapter 22: the data center building's kitchen

"So" concluded Drip, finishing his last mouthful of the casserole that Case
mod had pulled together the previous evening out of the canned and dry
nonperishable ingredients with which their base of operations was exclusively
stocked, "We just need Fishbike's bro in the valley to dig us up a copy of
some old Care and Feeding of Sentient Mainframes guide that got left in an
attic over the dot com bust, or Expo to suddenly remember reading that kind of
stuff on a torrent tracker and magically recite the hash like he sometimes
does, and then talk Gorram Smith in to putting the thing on payroll?" His mood
seemed vastly improved by the team's support and reasurance that he wasn't
about to be returned to the psychiatric hospital, especially on the wrong side
of the padded straps. 

Case and Fish nodded and Expo's face and shoulder twitched in the mannerism
which the team had learned to read as casual agreement. "So do we introduce
it, or let it come out and say hi to him itself?" Case mod wondered to
herself.

"We do" proclaimed Fish, simultaneously with Expo's equally assertive
exclamation "It does." Both begain talking rapidly and enthusiastically at
once in a parallel monologue that only a movie crew with perfectly positioned
directional microphones and many hours on its hands could have untangled.
Throughout the exchange Case and Drip looked at each other in an exasaparated
inquiry of "all right, who has to play the adult this time?" and the tall,
scrawny man eventually lost.

The sysadmin whose logging project appeared to have originally preciipateed
the debate at hand shifted his demeanor slightly, mentally putting on his
infrequently used bureaucracy and management hat to settle the dispute. "All
right, Fishy first, what should we do and why?" he inquired, then pre empted
the pudgy opponent's protests with "Expo, you *wait*. You're next."

"We have no idea what that thing would say" Fish began. "We don't know what
its motives are, or if it even has motives at all in the way that we typically
think of them occurring in humans. Model the flow of information: Smith
demands certain highly specific concesssions in the most recent set of changes
to the pet project he's been working with for who knows how long, then the
thing started talking to Drip here, and then with no further prompting, Gorram
Smith anticipates that something has gone wrong and pings the team
accordingly. Best case it's just that he took a lucky guess and followed his
bad feelings about Drip's architecture plans to their logical conclusion...
But worst case, this was the goal of the project all along and he's in league
with Liu to carefully calculate the optimal test data to run through to get
the thing to say particular stuff. Sure, I don't know how that would *help*
them, but if we're up against a cartoon super villain... You know what super
villains usually do to their teams of science folks once the super weapon is
completed. I say we keep everything on the record, preferably somebody else's
and the Google servers are great for this if we keep correspondence through
external email, because our purpose is twofold: First, we cover our own asses
and try to get out of here alive, and secondly, we are trying to make life
easier for the forensic investigators on the Good Guys' side if we're dead,
Smith's halfway through taking over the world, and shit is generally fucked
up."

"Umm. Wow." Drippy had forgotten that he might have wanted to compose a
synopsis or reply, and simply sat enthralled by the hitherto unforeseen
possibilities illuminated by Fish's rhetoric. "Uhh, Expo?"

"It's a person." The short, pale endomorph seemed more animated and engaged
than any of his comrades could ever recall seeing him. "If I'm a person, so is
it. It's not its fault where it came into existance and it has no control of
who's delegated to take care of it yet. We're like it's parents.There are a
lot of ways for parents to fuck up -- " All three of the other hackers in the
room grimaced and nodded wryly, recalling their own and their peers'
ancestors' various categories of terrible mistakes, then Expo continued "--
and we've all seen a lot of them and I promised myself that if I ever somehow
accidentally ended up with a kid it would not be like that. Now we've got a
little creature, an apparently sentient living entity which is more than you
can even say for an infant human at least on the sentience front, totally
dependent on us so we have to be absolutely careful... "

The mainframe-connected tablet that Drip had been placed above the stove
flashed black and white rapidly to draw the team's attention, then scrolled
the blinking marquee text "THANK YOU". 

Everyone was shocked, but Expo realized he still had the floor. "It, uhh,
learns fast?" He seemed to be partially reconsidering the confidence with
which he'd argued his previous stance. 

"Err. Yeah." Drip appeared to be reconsidering his recent decisions as well.
"You said it might eat entropy, so before we came up here I piped the security
system's feeds in as input and threw on a few of the shittier and more broken
sound and video processing algorithms to keep the corres spinning..."

"That's great, but can I have my tablet back now?" Case coped with the stress
by reverting to an even more petulant and juvenile mode of behavior than her
typical childish outlook. "OOPS IM SOR" blinked the marquee, and the device
powered off. 

"Well... All right... I need a drink..." Fish stood and sauntered toward the
industrial sized refrigerator, hands jammed deep in his pockets to hide the
frequency at which they were shaking. 


