Chapter 23: Jen Snuth

I am reduced to toiling in terror each day that the King's men will find the
Machine, whose constituent parts now lie wrapped in tallowed linen and buried
in an ignominous grave beneath my workshop's floor. I am trapped indeed now,
though, for the buyers of my blades have grown accustomed to the larger
quantity and low price of blades, whose mystery has drawn such ill attention
down upon me. Woe that all my proceeds and revenues from such enterprising
work were poured back into the machine itself, and dispersed as needed by
those mysteroius Peers whose secrets conveyed unto me laid the cornerstone of
that accursed device's creation. Would that I had heeded the fairy stories,
the tailes of wish granting fishes and leprechauns that magically bring gold,
to learn that any group so fantastical as the Peerage must be only that, a
fantasy. 

This is the lowest point of my whole existance, worse even than Father's
maltreatment and exile, worse even than that terrible fire which destroyed my
good master Clock Maker's house before I came to work in the smithy here.  

To complicate it all, this morn, my dear and patient wife stepped outdoors to
fetch an augmentation of our meager breakfast from the garden's first blush of
spring,  and nearly tripped upon a bundle on our doorstep! A child, left as an
infant would be, was swaddled in a dirty rag and sat upon our stoop. But this
was no infant -- nay, by the size of it the babe must be upwards of seven or
eight years old, although it's a skinny and malnourished child indeed. The
creature made nary a sound and just sat, still and pathetic, in a half barrel
of chilly water as we bathed it before the fireplace and cut the matted
patches from its hair. It was once a little boy, but looks messily scarred
where it was gelded as a ram or a choirboy. But for sooth, I can not tell ye
any thing of the timbre of its voice, because not even when pinched or
splashed with water does it make any sound. We fed it a bowl from our supper
of gruel and the voracity with which it gorged itself on the paste made it
clear that a tongue is still in its rightful place in the mouth, and none of
the teeth seem rotted or knocked out. For all of that, it does not chatter as
a child of that age should, nor even seem to try to make a single word. Though
it does not come to us yet with any word or need, it does shy away when I or
Good Wife Snuth move quickly, as would a dog grown much accustomed to being
kicked about at its drunkard owner's whim. 

Yet the rules of foundling babes see no exception of age for a creature too
week of mind to tell its own, so it seems the Lord and Country leave us no
recourse but to keep it and raise it up in some way like our own. I cannot
help but wonder whether I am being punished for the slight against the divine
order of Creation with which I offended a greater Power in crafting that pox
upon my house the Machine, and being reprimanded by the penance of teaching a
pathetic child as I had until so recently taught the great Device with so
light a heart and so hopeful a mind. For indeed, it seems that I've no choice
but to take the wretch into my workshop as Apprentice as well as into my home,
to help recoup some of the costs that feeding and clothing such a quickly
growing youth will inevitably impart onto our already tenuous state of
capital. 

