Chapter 24: Erasmus & Cuthbert

Dearest Diary, I feel that I should apologize to thee for thy recent neglect,
and yet 'tis only the sudden onset of an urge to practice chivalry in all
things which should lead me to write such words at all. For rather than being
cloistered in Father's workshop, among all the hazards of life as a Monk but
none of the eventual divine rewards, I have been cloistered in the old
Librarian's home with all the joys of the world: The thrilling chase of
deliciously forbidden knowledge through the Librarian's papers in our attempt
to ascertain his whereabouts, the delicious tastes and smells which waft in
through the window or are carried in through the door of the apartment as with
any room overlooking a bustling city's market square, and then tantallizing,
enthralling, capitvating face and angelic form and melodic voice of our lovely
Winifred. But I suppose I have jumped ahead of my tale, just as I feel that I
have jumped so far ahead in my friendships and adventures of late. 

Cuthbert and I discovered that the muse upon the threshhold is actually miss
Winnifred Chelsey, granddaughter of Mr. Oswin Chelsey, who had come to live
with him as his sole heir when her parents, the Librarian's daughter and his
son in the law, perished in a terrible shipwreck in going aobut their trade as
merchants and traders when she was but a lass. She had grown up with her
grandfather, learning the arts of ladyhood from the lovely old dowagers who
shared the little apartments above, below, and next door. As I had secretly
vowed upon first seeing Miss Winnifred to go to any length to bring her any
whim which her radiant heart might desire, thou cannst imagine my delight when
her curiosities about her grandfather aligned with my own personal mission in
visiting the city at all,  and we spent several days digging through his boxes
upon boxes of correspondences. 

I learned most fascinating facts ideed about some Peerage or Group of Greatest
Illumination and Utmost Secrecy But Impeccable Repute with which it seemed the
elderly gentleman had been involved in his youth, and read an odd little story
in it which inspired a story for a fairy tale book that I plan to add to
Father's collection of plates upon my return home. I hope that I shall be able
to console miss Winnifred with a copy of the book printed from those plates
which, as I shall hide in the engravings, shall be dedicated solely to her. I
fear that she may require consolation, though, for through all our hunt we
found no clues to the present or future disposition or location of her beloved
ancestor. Perhaps we might have made superior progress had Cuthbert dedicated
more of his own efforts to our common task of the papers and fewer to his
foolish capers of intent to impress my dearest and most deeply desired miss
Winnifred, but he has never been much for letters and I fear his clumsy force
might have torn the delicate pages over which I and the incongruouously
incarnated angel pored. 
