Chapter 25: 

Drip had just sat down at his accustomed terminal by the main frame to compose
the team's tactfully woreded reply to their supervisor when the screen in
front of him was taken over by the solid black background with centered white
text that seemed to be The Cluster's interface of choice for communicating
with the team since they'd given it visual inputs in the form of the
facility's security camera feeds. 

NLY
ALF
ND
ATS
ONG
LP
E

"wat?" he exclaimed, noticing that the monitor to his left was convulsing in
spasms of neon red, green, and blue pixels with the occasional square of his
workspace of tiled terminals showing through. The hacker pushed his chair back
and squinted one eye then the other, trying to decode the gibberish
characters. If something had been decoded in the wrong base he would expect to
see more numerals and fewer late-alphabet characters like N and L and Y, and
if there were unicode errors the screen would be littered with empty square
and rectangular boxes rather than boxes filled with snippets of his half
finished code. 

He cocked his shaggy head left to glare for a few minutes, then tried again
from the right, then he sat up straight and his hands flashed back to the
keyboard as his mind's slow fluorescent bulb of inspiration grudgingly
flickered into life an embarrassing number of seconds after he threw the
problem at its switch. Typing blindly into xrandr, he mirrored both displays,
causing the seizure generator pattern to move to the righthand screen and the
left one to show matching rows of mirrored letters to appear at the far side
of the left screen once he slammed the enter key triumphantly the second time
(The first, he realized a moment too late, had dropped the incantation into
his browser's address bar becuase his finger had slipped onto the wrong
modifier key when he tried to return to workspace 1 and instead transported
him to the requisite tab). 

O
H
IM
HW
RW
3H
M

Drip started scribbling the modified message onto the back of a napkin which
Fish had left in a vain hope of inspiring his coworker to keep the nominally
communial workspace tidied of dirty dishes and food scraps, then mentally
pieced it together: 

ONLY
HALF
MIND
WHATS
WRONG
HELP
ME

"Well, you sure only seem to mind using half a screen right now" he muttered,
then shouted to summon reinforcements from a nearby room "EXXX-POH, your baby
had an accident!"

The shorter man hauled himself out of his armchair and hurried noisily down
the stairs to arrive, out of breath, in time to watch Drip rapidly switching
between the two display mirroring configurations to make the words almost
visible through a persistence of vision illusion like the spinning bike wheel
systems that display the rider's speed by blinking at the perfect times. 

"oh *shit*" Expo exclaimed, nearly tripping out of his bedroom slippers as he
hastened over to the mainframe's LED illuminated plexiglass cage to examine
the bundles of pipes, cables, and tubes protruding from its top, bottom, and
back. 

"THIS" he exclaimed, stretching onto his tip toes to drag his smooth
fingertips across the top of the tall plexiglass case and glaring accusingly
at the fine, sparkley powder with which they were coated when he held them at
eye level a few inches from his oversized spectacles, "is NOT supposed to be
there." He brushed  the debris dismissively from his hand onto his bathrobe,
then knealt ponderously to trace a pattern in more of the fine gilmmering dust
on the ground under the unbilical bundle of wires and tubes that exited the
transparent computer case's far side. He placed both palms on the ground to
lever himself back into a standing position, then brushed them together in a
gesture that unleashed a slowly falling cloud of bright sparkles into the air
currents of the server room. 

"Fairy infestation?" mocked Casemod, who had appeared in the doorway, curious
as to what all the fuss was about. "Or..." her abrasive voice trailed off as
she followed the dust's source up toward a gaping hole which had appeared in
the ceiling since she'd last examined it, "...*that*, is *definitely* not
supposed to be *there*. We might wanna, uhh..."

All three of Smith's employees flung up their hands to cover their faces and
fled the room as a caucophony of scrabbling claws crescendoed fron the portal
above the computer, and none caught more than a glimpse of the flood of
grayish fur streaming sparklingly down over the case, glitteringly:q encrusted
with the shrapnel of a small fortune in mascerated plastic, silicone, and
glass. 
