Chapter 26: Smith's Log

Smith's Log, 1942

I suppose that I should count myself fortunate  to have been released from my
duties by those agents who so condescendingly seemed to conclude that I could
be no further use to them in my state of "distraction" by pursuit of the
truth, but it was too late. Now that I can write again, I feel it is my duty
to recount the events of the past few weeks so that, in the odd chance of good
fortune that some other brave soul has stumbled upon the same enlightenments,
they might tread the path I've paved with these futile efforts. 

Six weeks ago, I made the breakthrough detailed in the diagrams of which I
have stuffed copies between this notebook's final pages. My work in
deciphering codes had rapidly transitioned into a field addressed by some as
information data flow theoretics, a path of inquiry which I seem to have been
almost entirely alone in following to its natural conclusions. To summarize,
it has always been simpler and more straightforward to break a cipher at its
human elements than at its mathematical ones, and I appear to have stumbled
upon the perfect system for modeling behavior with such accuracy that it
predicts precisely where one can intervene to be straightforwardly and
willingly handed even the most unbreakable cipher's keys. 

As I trained the other agents in my newly discovered technique, though, I
discovered certain fundamental holes in its implementation. Call them flaws,
if you will -- to me, they were flaws only in the way that a rudder lying
alone and stranded in a shipyard is flawed by the bolt holes where it shall
soon be affixed and granted purpose by a great troop carrier's hull. We were
using the rudder as a rainshed, and though it did shed the rain, I was struck
by the sudden realization of how greatly my beloved country's power could
multiply if we braved the storm to affix our makeshift roof into its rightful
role of implemeing the orders from its vessel's helm. 

It was clear to me that so much information was missing, and yet at first I
did not know where to seek it. I was troubled, tortured even, by this great
void of ignorance at the center of my psyche -- my very sanity felt to be
rolling precariously around its brink like a coin that spins and balances time
after time, traveling imperceptably downward along its predestined path into
the bell-like mouth of a novelty donation jar. A series of memories were
haunting me, and I'm ashamed to say that it took me the whole of that first
week just to figure out why. The memories were of a book, old and leather
bound, each page packed with tiny engravings among the batallions of
blackletter characters almost too bold to read. I'd later learned that this
style of typesetting, the tiny hollows pressed by each letter into the page
preserved after who knows how many years, could only be accomplished with
hand-set type and an antique printing press... but later than when? The
question plagued me: Where did I recall that book from? It was akin to the
books that Grampa used to read to me when I was small enough to still sit on
his knee, but so unique from them... But perhaps that was where. 

There was something about that book which seemed inexorably linked to the
puzzle at hand and so, wanting any other recourse and unable even to explain
to my starry eyed trainees how or why I felt that the seemingly miraculous
wisdom I'd so recently imparted to them now felt incomplete or even downright
wrong, I put in for a leave of absence. There were many hours spent with a
kind old psychotherapist over the next few days, verifying that I truly wasn't
running off to join any of our many enemies -- far from it, I was taking the
actions which now seemed, based on knowledge to which only I would and could
understand, to be the only recourse to complete my theory of information and
discover how its full implications could protect America, as each passing hour
increased the risk that some vile and unethical power might discover the same
tricks and turn them to evil purposes before I could help my fellow countrymen
defend. 
